README.md, before:

# Nothing to see here

Please don't use this repo yet, nothing ready for use yet.

# Pulumi Native Provider Boilerplate

This repository is a boilerplate showing how to create a native Pulumi provider.

## Authoring a Pulumi Native Provider

This boilerplate creates a working Pulumi-owned provider named `xyz`.
It implements a random number generator that you can [build and test out for yourself](#test-against-the-example) and then replace the Random code with code specific to your provider.


### Prerequisites

Ensure the following tools are installed and present in your `$PATH`:

* [`pulumictl`](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumictl#installation)
* [Go 1.17](https://golang.org/dl/) or 1.latest
* [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) 14.x.  We recommend using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to manage NodeJS installations.
* [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
* [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
* [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) (called as `python3`).  For recent versions of MacOS, the system-installed version is fine.
* [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)


### Creating and Initializing the Repository

Pulumi offers this repository as a [GitHub template repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template) for convenience.  From this repository:

1. Click "Use this template".
1. Set the following options:
   * Owner: pulumi 
   * Repository name: pulumi-xyz-native (replace "xyz" with the name of your provider)
   * Description: Pulumi provider for xyz
   * Repository type: Public
1. Clone the generated repository.

From the templated repository:

1. Search-replace `xyz` with the name of your desired provider.

#### Build the provider and install the plugin

   ```bash
   $ make build install
   ```
   
This will:

1. Create the SDK codegen binary and place it in a `./bin` folder (gitignored)
2. Create the provider binary and place it in the `./bin` folder (gitignored)
3. Generate the dotnet, Go, Node, and Python SDKs and place them in the `./sdk` folder
4. Install the provider on your machine.

#### Test against the example
   
```bash
$ cd examples/simple
$ yarn link @pulumi/xyz
$ yarn install
$ pulumi stack init test
$ pulumi up
```

Now that you have completed all of the above steps, you have a working provider that generates a random string for you.

#### A brief repository overview

You now have:

1. A `provider/` folder containing the building and implementation logic
    1. `cmd/pulumi-resource-xyz/main.go` - holds the provider's sample implementation logic.
2. `deployment-templates` - a set of files to help you around deployment and publication
3. `sdk` - holds the generated code libraries created by `pulumi-gen-xyz/main.go`
4. `examples` a folder of Pulumi programs to try locally and/or use in CI.
5. A `Makefile` and this `README`.

#### Additional Details

This repository depends on the pulumi-go-provider library. For more details on building providers, please check
the [Pulumi Go Provider docs](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-go-provider).

### Build Examples

Create an example program using the resources defined in your provider, and place it in the `examples/` folder.

You can now repeat the steps for [build, install, and test](#test-against-the-example).

## Configuring CI and releases

1. Follow the instructions laid out in the [deployment templates](./deployment-templates/README-DEPLOYMENT.md).

## References

Other resources/examples for implementing providers:
* [Pulumi Command provider](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-command/blob/master/provider/pkg/provider/provider.go)
* [Pulumi Go Provider repository](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-go-provider)

Commit message:

Adapt xyz to outscale
Signed-off-by: Jerome Jutteau <jerome.jutteau@outscale.com>

README.md, after:

# Nothing to see here

Please don't use this repo yet, nothing ready for use yet.

# Pulumi Native Provider Boilerplate

This repository is a boilerplate showing how to create a native Pulumi provider.

## Authoring a Pulumi Native Provider

This boilerplate creates a working Pulumi-owned provider named `outscale`.
It implements a random number generator that you can [build and test out for yourself](#test-against-the-example) and then replace the Random code with code specific to your provider.


### Prerequisites

Ensure the following tools are installed and present in your `$PATH`:

* [`pulumictl`](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumictl#installation)
* [Go 1.17](https://golang.org/dl/) or 1.latest
* [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) 14.x.  We recommend using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to manage NodeJS installations.
* [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
* [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
* [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) (called as `python3`).  For recent versions of MacOS, the system-installed version is fine.
* [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)


### Creating and Initializing the Repository

Pulumi offers this repository as a [GitHub template repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template) for convenience.  From this repository:

1. Click "Use this template".
1. Set the following options:
   * Owner: pulumi 
   * Repository name: pulumi-outscale-native (replace "outscale" with the name of your provider)
   * Description: Pulumi provider for outscale
   * Repository type: Public
1. Clone the generated repository.

From the templated repository:

1. Search-replace `outscale` with the name of your desired provider.

#### Build the provider and install the plugin

   ```bash
   $ make build install
   ```
   
This will:

1. Create the SDK codegen binary and place it in a `./bin` folder (gitignored)
2. Create the provider binary and place it in the `./bin` folder (gitignored)
3. Generate the dotnet, Go, Node, and Python SDKs and place them in the `./sdk` folder
4. Install the provider on your machine.

#### Test against the example
   
```bash
$ cd examples/simple
$ yarn link @pulumi/outscale
$ yarn install
$ pulumi stack init test
$ pulumi up
```

Now that you have completed all of the above steps, you have a working provider that generates a random string for you.

#### A brief repository overview

You now have:

1. A `provider/` folder containing the building and implementation logic
    1. `cmd/pulumi-resource-outscale/main.go` - holds the provider's sample implementation logic.
2. `deployment-templates` - a set of files to help you around deployment and publication
3. `sdk` - holds the generated code libraries created by `pulumi-gen-outscale/main.go`
4. `examples` a folder of Pulumi programs to try locally and/or use in CI.
5. A `Makefile` and this `README`.

#### Additional Details

This repository depends on the pulumi-go-provider library. For more details on building providers, please check
the [Pulumi Go Provider docs](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-go-provider).

### Build Examples

Create an example program using the resources defined in your provider, and place it in the `examples/` folder.

You can now repeat the steps for [build, install, and test](#test-against-the-example).

## Configuring CI and releases

1. Follow the instructions laid out in the [deployment templates](./deployment-templates/README-DEPLOYMENT.md).

## References

Other resources/examples for implementing providers:
* [Pulumi Command provider](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-command/blob/master/provider/pkg/provider/provider.go)
* [Pulumi Go Provider repository](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-go-provider)
